Thank You
– Run! – Help!
Iruka, are you all right?
Mom!
Dad! Mom's…!
Why didn't you stay at the shelter?
I'll take care of Mom, so hurry up and get out of here!
No, I won't!
I don't want to leave you and Mom behind and run away!
I'll protect Mom!
Don't push your luck, you're still a kid!
It's a parent's duty to protect their children!
You must avoid damage to the village!
Chase the Nine Tails outside the village walls!
Yes sir!
Buy me time so that I can execute my jutsu!
Do not slow down the attack!
Right! Let's go!
Ninja Art! Summoning!
Appear… Monkey King Enma!
The Nine Tails, huh.
So the seal was broken?
We're going to chase it out of the village with the Adamantine Nyoi!
Got it! Transform!
Let's go, Enma!
Right!
Extend!
I've chased it out of the village.
Don't let up! Keep at him!
Minato… Where are you?!
I must hand it to the Fourth Hokage.
You wounded me and managed to pull out the Nine Tails.
However, the Nine Tails will be mine eventually.
I am going to rule the world…
And there are so many ways to go about doing that.
That tone… He's not joking around.
Keep him occupied until the Fourth Hokage arrives!
Iruka…
Let go of me!
My dad and my mom are… still fighting!
BIND
Now listen up.
You young shinobi are to stay away from Nine Tails.
What do you mean by that?
This is not a battle between villages.
This is domestic trouble.
There is no reason for you all to risk your lives.
Speak for yourself!
Calm down, Kurenai!
You're a shinobi too.
We are not guaranteed a long life.
But, my daughter…
At least, pass on the Will of Fire to my grandchild.
Make that your oath to your father.
For I do believe in you.
This is terrible.
He's going to do that again?
Lord Third!
Summoning Jutsu!
This is…
It's the Fourth Hokage!
I will rule the world.
Kushina, forgive me.
Hold down the Nine Tails for just a while!
That's going to be tough… even for me!
In order to transport something this big,
I'll need just as much chakra!
Minato…
Did he fly off with the Nine Tails?
That way!
I must put up a barrier immediately.
My chakra is almost…
I can still do it, Minato.
Kushina!
Did I wake you up?
I'm sorry, Naruto.
Kushina…
I'm going to draw the Nine Tails with me to my death.
So we can delay the revival of the Nine Tails.
I'll be able to save all of you
with what little chakra I have left.
Thank you for everything you've done for me.
FOURTH HOKAGE Kushina…
FOURTH HOKAGE It's because of you that I'm the Fourth Hokage!
You made me a man!
And you made me this baby's father!
And yet…
Minato, don't give me that look!
I'm happy that you loved me.
And today…is this child's birthday.
If I were to imagine me alive, and our future together,
the three of us as a family…
I can't see us having anything but a happy life.
If I were allowed just one regret,
it's that I won't be able to see Naruto grow up.
How I wish I could have seen that.
Kushina, there is no need for you to die with the Nine Tails.
Preserve what little chakra you have left
for a reunion with Naruto.
I'll seal all of your remaining chakra inside Naruto.
It will be part of an Eight Signed Seal.
Then I'll take the Nine Tails with me
with the only Sealing Jutsu I can do since I'm not a Jinchuriki,
the Reaper Death Seal!
But the caster that uses that jutsu…!
And one more thing.
I will only seal half of the Nine Tails.
Sealing a power this immense is physically impossible.
It's also strategically unwise.
If you take the Nine Tails and its seal with you when you die,
there won't be a Jinchuriki around when he reemerges.
That will upset the balance of power between the Tailed Beasts.
The Reaper Death Seal will seal half of the Nine Tails with me forever.
As for the other half of the Nine Tails…
Perhaps you are the Child of Prophecy.
What is it?
Sometime in the future,
the Shinobi World will face a grave crisis.
The savior that will emerge during this time
is the Child of Prophecy.
I will seal it inside Naruto with the Eight Signed Seal!
I know what you want to say.
But remember what Master Jiraiya said about world upheaval.
And the calamities that would follow.
Two things were confirmed for me today.
That masked man who attacked you today
is a harbinger of disaster!
And the one who will stop him is this child!
This infant whose godfather is Master Jiraiya.
He will open up the future as a Jinchuriki.
I don't know why, but I'm convinced of this.
But Minato…!
Reaper Death Seal!
Let's put our trust in this child!
He's our son, after all!
Those signs. Don't tell me…!
Yes, it's the Reaper Death Seal.
When I'm finished with the Reaper Death Seal,
I will seal your chakra inside Naruto.
When he tries to control the Nine Tail's power as a Jinchuriki,
I want you to help him out.
Our son…
He's our son,
which is why I don't want to put such a terrible burden on him!
And also, why use the Reaper Death Seal?
If it's just so I can meet a grown-up Naruto
even if it's just for a short while,
there's no need for you to die!
I want you to stay by Naruto as he grows up and protect him.
I don't get it!
To keep the balance of Tailed Beasts?
For the sake of the nation and the village?
Why must Naruto be sacrificed?!
Why must you sacrifice yourself for me?!
To forsake one's nation, and one's village,
is the same as forsaking one's child.
Your own homeland was destroyed, so you of all people should know…
the harsh life that awaits those without a country.
Besides, our family is…
shinobi!
And finally, even if I were to live, I'm no match to you.
Even though you won't have much time with him,
there are some things only you as his mother can tell Naruto.
Things that I can't.
That's a mother's role.
I'm not doing this just for you. I'm doing this for Naruto.
I will gladly die for my son.
It's my duty as his father.
Lord Third, what's wrong?!
It's no good.
I can't go further than this point
because of the barrier put up to keep Nine Tails from escaping!
Those two are planning to take care of Nine Tails themselves!
Damn you, Fourth Hokage!
Seal!
My body is getting numb…
I never expected such massive chakra…
Damn you!
It's the Reaper Death Seal, after all.
He actually used it.
But the Nine Tails is still…!
Wasn't he able to complete the seal?
It's gotten smaller, but…
All right, next is the Eight Signed Seal.
I will seal the Nine Tails inside Naruto.
The Ritual Altar?
Does he intend to seal me again?
Furthermore… Inside that baby?
Kushina! Are you all right?
Right now!
I said that this was the father's duty.
Then all the more, since I'm his mother!
There's a child?
They shielded him.
Why you—!
This is the first time I lost an argument.
Okay, I understand that you're determined to do this.
Thank you, Kushina.
Summoning Jutsu!
Nine Tails!
What?! Lord Fourth too! What's the meaning of this?!
Gerotora, I'm going to give you the Sealing Formula's key.
Take it immediately to Master Jiraiya and store it away.
I see… Minato plans to make his own son the Jinchuriki
to save the village.
You have my world. I confirm the key is in my possession.
And now, I'm off!
That should do it.
Kushina, my time is running out.
I'm going start the Eight Signed Seal.
I want to put some of my chakra in Naruto too.
It'll be quite a while before we can see him.
Let's tell him what we want to say.
Naruto…
Don't be picky. Eat lots and grow strong.
Make sure you bathe every day and stay warm.
Also don't stay up late. You need lots of sleep.
And make friends.
You don't need a lot of friends.
Just a few… Ones you can really, really trust.
I wasn't very good at it,
but keep up with your studies and practice your ninjutsu hard.
Remember that everyone has strengths and weaknesses.
So don't get too depressed if you can't do something well.
Respect your teachers and upperclassmen at the Academy.
Oh, and this is important.
It's about the Three Prohibitions for a shinobi.
Be extra careful about lending and borrowing money.
Put your mission wages into your savings account.
No alcohol until you're twenty.
Too much can ruin your health, so drink in moderation.
Another Prohibition is women.
I'm a woman, so I don't know too much about this but…
All you need to remember is that
this world is made up of men and women.
So it's only natural to take an interest in girls…
But just don't get hooked on bad women.
Find someone just like me.
Speaking of the Three Prohibitions, be wary of Jiraiya Sensei, you know.
Naruto, from now on,
you're going to face lots of pain and hardship.
Be true to yourself.
Have a dream and
have the confidence to make that dream come true!
There's so much…
Oh, so much more that I want to pass on to you.
I wish I could stay with you longer.
I love you.
Minato, I'm sorry I used up your time.
Oh, it's okay.
Naruto, my message to you is…
I guess it's the same as your nagging mother's.
Eight Signed Seal.
I'm sorry for making you the Nine Tail's vessel.
For putting our burden on your shoulders…
For not being able to live by your side…
For not being able to shower you with love.
You don't have to apologize.
It was rough in the past because I was a Jinchuriki.
But I never held it against you or Dad.
I admit I didn't really know what parental love was.
After all, you and Dad weren't around.
I just had a feeling.
But I know now that you and Dad gave your lives just for me.
And I realize that even more than the Nine Tails,
my vessel is filled with your love!
I'm happy!
I'm glad I'm your son, Mom and Dad!
Minato, are you listening?
Our hopes did reach our boy!
Naruto… Thank you for letting me be your mom.
And thank you for letting Minato be your dad.
Thank you for being born to us!
Thank you…
so very much.
Naruto faced and defeated his true self here.
Guy, why don't you try it out for yourself!
Don't be stupid!
I came here to help Naruto!
Are you afraid to face your true self?
What did you say?
Okay then, I'll try it out!
I have a feeling your true self isn't human!
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "Battle in Paradise! Odd Beast vs. The Monster!"
Is that my true self?
Tune in again!